The CeCDC-14 phosphatase is required for cytokinesis in the Caenorhabditis elegans
                embryoIn all eukaryotic organisms, the physical separation of two nascent cells must be
                coordinated with chromosome segregation and mitotic exit. In Saccharomyces
                cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe this coordination depends on a number of
                genes that cooperate in intricate regulatory pathways termed mitotic exit network
                and septum initiation network, respectively. Here we have explored the function of
                potentially homologous genes in a metazoan organism, Caenorhabditis elegans, using
                RNA-mediated interference. Of all the genes tested, only depletion of CeCDC-14, the
                C. elegans homologue of the budding yeast dual-specificity phosphatase Cdc14p
                (Clp1/Flp1p in fission yeast), caused embryonic lethality. We show that CeCDC-14 is
                required for cytokinesis but may be dispensable for progression of the early
                embryonic cell cycles. In response to depletion of CeCDC-14, embryos fail to
                establish a central spindle, and several proteins normally found at this structure
                are mislocalized. CeCDC-14 itself localizes to the central spindle in anaphase and
                to the midbody in telophase. It colocalizes with the mitotic kinesin ZEN-4, and the
                two proteins depend on each other for correct localization. These findings identify
                the CDC14 phosphatase as an important regulator of central spindle formation and
                cytokinesis in a metazoan organism.IntroductionThe correct segregation of genetic material is paramount for the growth and
                development of all eukaryotic organisms. Of particular importance, cells must
                spatially and temporally coordinate spindle positioning and chromosome segregation
                with the physical separation of the nascent cells. In recent years, substantial
                progress has been made towards understanding this coordination in both budding yeast
                and fission yeast. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, exit from mitosis is coupled to
                correct spindle positioning by a signalling cascade termed the mitotic exit network
                (MEN)* (Jaspersen et al., 1998). The MEN senses the position of the spindle pole
                bodies (SPBs) in reference to mother and daughter cells, and delays Cdk1 (Cdc28p)
                inactivation until one SPB has entered the bud (Bardin et al., 2000; Pereira et al.,
                2000). The position of the SPB determines the nucleotide state of an SPB-associated
                small GTPase, Tem1p (Shirayama et al., 1994; Bardin et al., 2000; Pereira et al.,
                2000). This protein in turn controls a cascade of serine/threonine kinases,
                comprising Cdc15p (Schweitzer and Philippsen, 1991) and Dbf2p (Johnston et al.,
                1990; Mah et al., 2001), which acts upon the most downstream target of the MEN, the
                protein phosphatase Cdc14p (Shou et al., 1999; Visintin et al., 1999). Whereas
                Cdc14p is sequestered and kept inactive in the nucleolus from early mitosis to
                anaphase, activation of the mitotic exit network results in its release from the
                nucleolus. Cdc14p then dephosphorylates and functionally activates several Cdk1
                substrates, including Hct1/Cdh1, an accessory factor of the anaphase promoting
                complex/cyclosome (APC/C), and the Cdk1 inhibitor Sic1p (Jaspersen et al., 1999;
                Shou et al., 1999; Visintin et al., 1999). As a result, Cdk1 activity drops and exit
                from mitosis ensues.In Schizosaccharomyces pombe, gene products apparently homologous to the
                components of the budding yeast MEN have originally been identified as regulators of
                septation, a process akin to cytokinesis (for review see Balasubramanian et al.,
                2000; Bardin and Amon, 2001). Hence, the corresponding regulatory pathway is
                referred to as the septum initiation network (SIN). Although many SIN genes are
                structurally similar to MEN genes, they appear to regulate primarily the deposition
                of the septum rather than the inactivation of Cdk1 (Cdc2p) (for review see Le Goff
                et al., 1999; McCollum and Gould, 2001). As a result, SIN mutants continue to
                segregate their DNA without undergoing cytokinesis. In a cytokinesis mutant, the SIN
                is also required to keep Cdk1 activity low and prevent entry into the next cell
                cycle. This latter function appears to be mediated by Clp1p/Flp1p, the S. pombe
                homologue of the Cdc14p phosphatase. Specifically, it appears that Clp1p/Flp1p may
                dephosphorylate both Cdc25p andWee1p, thereby maintaining Cdk1 in an inactive,
                tyrosine-phosphorylated state (Trautman et al., 2001). Fission yeast Clp1p/Flp1p
                also seems to be regulated by sequestration to the nucleolus during interphase.
                However, during mitosis, it has been observed on the SPBs, the spindle microtubules,
                and the cell division septum (Cueille et al., 2001; Trautman et al., 2001).In metazoan organisms, the coordination of late mitotic events and cytokinesis
                with chromosome segregation remains poorly understood. Considering that metazoan
                cell division displays several features that are not encountered in yeast and
                vice-versa, the mechanisms regulating the exit from mitosis and the onset of
                cytokinesis in animal cells are expected to differ in important aspects from those
                emerging in yeast. For instance, considering that the nuclear envelope breaks down
                during mitosis in most multicellular eukaryotes, it is by no means clear that the
                nucleolar sequestration mechanism that controls Cdc14 activity in yeast is also
                operating in metazoan species.In animal cells, the site of cleavage furrow formation is determined by the
                position of the mitotic spindle (Cao and Wang, 1996). During anaphase, a structure
                of antiparallel microtubule bundles, the so-called central spindle, forms between
                the separating chromosomes. This central spindle is essential for the completion of
                cytokinesis, as mutations in several of its components cause a failure in
                cytokinesis (Williams et al., 1995; Adams et al., 1998; Raich et al., 1998;
                Jantsch-Plunger et al., 2000). How the central spindle is assembled has not yet been
                elucidated in detail, but data from several organisms attribute an important role in
                the bundling of midzone microtubules to a mitotic kinesin-related motor protein,
                termed CHO1/Mklp1 in mammals (Sellitto and Kuriyama, 1988; Nislow et al., 1992),
                pavarotti in Drosophila (Adams et al., 1998), and ZEN-4 in C. elegans (Powers et
                al., 1998; Raich et al., 1998). Interestingly, the formation of the central spindle
                is prevented if Cdk1 activity persists, even though chromosome separation is not
                affected (Murray et al., 1996; Wheatley et al., 1997) Therefore, the reversal of the
                Cdk1-mediated inhibition of central spindle formation may constitute a key element
                in the coordination of cytokinesis with chromosome segregation.Inspection of metazoan genomes reveals putative homologues for several components
                of the yeast MEN/SIN pathways, but for others, candidate homologues cannot readily
                be identified. Thus, it remains to be determined to what extent the yeast MEN/SIN
                circuits have been conserved during evolution. This question is particularly
                pertinent, as significant differences in the wiring of these circuits have been
                described even between budding yeast and fission yeast (for review see
                Balasubramanian et al., 2000; Bardin and Amon, 2001; McCollum and Gould, 2001). Of
                all the MEN/SIN gene products identified so far, the most highly conserved component
                is the phosphatase Cdc14p (Clp1p/Flp1p). In human cells, two CDC14 isoforms, CDC14A
                and CDC14B, have been described (Li et al., 1997, 2000). The function of these
                proteins remains poorly understood, although a recent study suggests a role for
                mammalian CDC14A in the centrosome cycle (Mailand et al., 2002). In support of this
                view, CDC14A localizes to centrosomes, whereas overexpressed CDC14B has been found
                at the nucleolus (Mailand et al., 2002). Furthermore, like its budding yeast
                counterpart, CDC14A can dephosphorylate Hct1/Cdh1p, at least in vitro (Bembenek and
                Yu, 2001).To determine which, if any, of the identified yeast MEN/SIN components could play
                a role in mitotic exit and/or cytokinesis in metazoan cells, we studied the embryo
                of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, a widely used model for metazoan cell
                division. Specifically, we used RNA-mediated interference (RNAi) to deplete C.
                elegans worms of potential MEN/SIN homologues, and scored embryos for cell
                cycle-related phenotypes. Of all candidate MEN/SIN components analyzed here, only
                the depletion of CeCDC-14, the C. elegans homologue of the S. cerevisiae Cdc14p
                phosphatase, produced embryonic lethality. Careful analysis of the corresponding
                phenotype revealed that CeCDC-14 is dispensable for progression of the nuclear
                cycles in the early embryo, but essential for central spindle formation and
                cytokinesis. This suggests that central spindle formation in animal cells depends
                critically on the dephosphorylation of one or several Cdk1-substrates.ResultsRNAi analysis of putative C. elegans homologues of yeast MEN/SIN proteinsA search of the C. elegans genome for potential homologues of the yeast MEN/SIN
                genes revealed several candidate genes, although for some of these genes the
                sequence similarities were only limited and for TEM1, CDC15, and BFA1 no putative
                homologues could be identified (Table I). All candidate genes were tested in C.
                elegans for a possible function in a hypothetical MEN/SIN-like regulatory network,
                using RNAi to deplete the corresponding products. For depletion of putative MEN/SIN
                gene products, both RNAi feeding and injection methods (Montgomery and Fire, 1998;
                Timmons et al., 2001) were tried to maximize the probability of functional
                inactivation. The results of these experiments are summarized in Table I. A priori,
                we had expected that depletion of a gene product required for the regulation of
                mitotic exit or the onset of cytokinesis should result in embryonic lethality.
                However, of all components tested, only the depletion of the C. elegans homologue of
                the budding yeast Cdc14p phosphatase caused embryonic lethality in the offspring of
                injected worms (Table I). The corresponding phenotype will be described in more
                detail below. Depletion of two other gene products also caused specific, albeit
                different, phenotypes. In the case of the ORF T19A5.2, a potential homologue of the
                fission yeast kinase Sid1p, a striking degeneration of the germline in both
                RNAi-injected and -fed worms was observed. In injected worms the production of
                oocytes ceased, and instead the germ line appeared to cellularize. Depletion of the
                ORF T20F10.1, one of the putative Dbf2p homologues, caused the offspring of injected
                worms to arrest at an early larval stage (L1). These results could suggest that C.
                elegans protein kinases related to yeast Sid1p and Dbf2p may be involved in cell
                cycle regulation, in particular tissues and developmental stages of the worm.
                However, given the absence of a striking phenotype in the early C. elegans embryo,
                the study of these kinases was not pursued. Instead, our subsequent analyses were
                focused on the C. elegans homologue of the budding yeast Cdc14p phosphatase, the
                ostensibly best conserved component of the yeast MEN/SIN regulatory circuits.Putative C. elegans homologues of MEN/SIN genesa S. cerevisiae S. pombe Phenotype MEN SIN Putative C. elegans homologue Feeding
                Injection TEM1 spg1+ ? BFA1 byr4+ ? BUB2 cdc16+ C33F10.2 no phenotype no phenotype
                CDC15 cdc7+ ? DBF2/DBF20 sid2+ T20F10.1 no phenotype F1 arrest as L1b R11G1.4 no
                phenotype no phenotype MOB1/MOB2 mob1+ T12B3.4 no phenotype no phenotype F38H4.10 no
                phenotype no phenotype F09A5.4 no phenotype no phenotype ? sid1+ T19A5.2 F1 sterile
                with disorganized germline Germline in injected worms degenerates Production of
                embryos ceases F1 are sterileb CDC14 flp1+/clp1+ C17G10.4 no phenotype embryonic
                lethalitybSummary of RNAi phenotypes observed after depletion of putative C. elegans
                homologues of yeast MEN/SIN genes.For illustration, see Fig. S1 (available at
                http://www.jcb.org/cgi/content/full/jcb.200202054/DC1).CeCDC-14 is a phosphatase and localizes to the central spindle and the
                midbodyOur analysis of the C. elegans genome had revealed only one ORF with significant
                homology to CDC14, C17G10.4, but because WormBase (http://www.wormbase.org)
                predicted three potential splice variants of this ORF, total worm cDNA preparations
                were subjected to RT-PCR. This analysis revealed a single product, corresponding to
                the smallest splice variant, C7G10.4c. Furthermore, sequencing of several ESTs
                derived from C17G10.4 also yielded only sequences corresponding to C17G10.4c
                (unpublished data). Similarly, only a single product, corresponding to the molecular
                mass predicted for C17G10.4c (76.7 kD) could be detected at the protein level (see
                below). Thus, although it would be premature to exclude the existence of minor
                splice variants, we conclude that the 76.7-kD product of C17G10.4c represents the
                major CDC14 phosphatase in C. elegans.To demonstrate that this ORF encodes a functional phosphatase, CeCDC-14 was
                expressed as a His-tagged fusion protein in bacteria. The purified protein was then
                used in phosphatase assays with the artificial substrate para-nitrophenyl phosphate
                (pNPP). 6His-CeCDC-14 hydrolyzed pNPP with a specific activity of 96 nmoles
                phosphate released min-1 mg-1, close to the specific activity reported for Cdc14p of
                S. cerevisiae (Taylor et al., 1997). This phosphatase activity was completely
                abolished upon mutation of the presumptive catalytic cysteine 295 to serine.
                Furthermore, dephosphorylation of pNPP by CeCDC-14 was efficiently inhibited by 200
                muM sodium-orthovanadate (5% activity of control reaction) and only weakly inhibited
                by 20 mM sodium fluoride or 100 nM okadaic acid (72 and 87% activity of control
                reactions, respectively). A similar sensitivity to inhibitors had also been reported
                for Cdc14p (Taylor et al., 1997). Taken together, these data strongly indicate that
                the protein encoded by ORF C17G10.4c is the C. elegans homologue of S. cerevisiae
                Cdc14p. Thus, we hereafter refer to this protein as CeCDC-14.To facilitate the study of CeCDC-14 in the embryonic cell cycles of C. elegans, a
                polyclonal antibody was raised against a COOH-terminal fragment of CeCDC-14
                (spanning amino acids 352-605). This fragment encompasses a region of the
                phosphatase domain that would be predicted to be conserved in all potential splice
                variants discussed above. Yet, in Western blots on total worm extracts, the
                affinity-purified antibody recognized a single band migrating at ca. 76 kD, very
                close to the size predicted for the smallest splice-variant (Fig. 1 A, lane 1).
                Furthermore, recombinant untagged CeCDC-14 comigrated exactly with the band detected
                in total worm extract (Fig. 1 A, lane 2), and both signals were completely
                eliminated upon addition of purified His-tagged CeCDC-14 (Fig. 1 A, lanes 3 and 4).
                Together, these results demonstrate the specificity of our antibody, and they
                confirm the identification of the endogenous protein as CeCDC-14.CeCDC-14 localizes to the central spindle in anaphase and the midbody in
                telophase. (A) Total worm extract (lanes 1 and 3) and lysate of insect cells
                infected with recombinant baculovirus encoding CeCDC-14 (lanes 2 and 4) were probed
                by immunoblotting with affinity-purified anti-CeCDC-14 antibodies, in the absence
                (lanes 1 and 2) or presence (lanes 3 and 4) of purified recombinant 6His-CeCDC-14.
                (B) Wild-type C. elegans embryos were subjected to immunofluorescence microscopy
                using affinity-purified anti-CeCDC-14 antibodies. Tubulin staining is shown in
                green, anti-CeCDC-14 staining in red, and DAPI in blue. Arrowheads mark the central
                spindle (top) and the midbody (bottom panel). (C) ZEN-4-GFP (MG170) embryos in the
                first zygotic division were stained with goat anti-GFP (green) and
                rabbit-anti-CeCDC-14 (red) antibodies. Yellow color indicates colocalization. The
                polar body extrusion remnant is indicated by an arrowhead and the central spindle by
                an arrow. Bars, 5 mum.The localization of CeCDC-14 was analyzed in wild-type C. elegans embryos, using
                the affinity-purified anti-CeCDC-14 antibodies for immunofluorescence microscopy.
                During interphase and early mitosis, anti-CeCDC-14 antibodies produced only weak
                diffuse staining, but no labeling of specific cellular structures (unpublished
                data). However, in anaphase, striking staining of the central spindle area was
                observed in anaphase (Fig. 1 B, top, arrowhead). Later in mitosis, during telophase,
                this staining compacted to a single dot that was positioned between the two daughter
                cells, highly reminiscent of the midbody (Fig. 1 B, bottom, arrowhead). Older
                embryos displayed multiple dots in the cytoplasm or between cells, again consistent
                with midbody staining (not depicted; see Fig. 7, bottom, left). Attesting to the
                specificity of this staining, neither the preimmune serum nor the affinity-purified
                serum preincubated with recombinant CeCDC-14 produced any distinct labeling
                (unpublished data). In contrast to recent reports on Cdc14 localizations in other
                organisms (Shou et al., 1999; Visintin et al., 1999; Bembenek and Yu, 2001; Mailand
                et al., 2002; Pereira et al., 2002), no staining of centrosomes or nuclei could be
                seen (Fig. 1 B).The absence of CeCDC-14 does not abolish the cyclic appearance and disappearance
                of anti-phospho-histone H3 staining. Wild-type and CeCDC-14-depleted embryos were
                stained simultaneously with anti-tubulin antibodies (green), anti-phospho-histone H3
                antibodies and anti-CeCDC-14 antibodies (both in red). Rabbit antibodies against
                both components could be used because the chromosomal staining for phospho- histone
                H3 and the central spindle/midbody staining for CeCDC-14 are clearly distinct. DAPI
                staining is shown in blue. Arrowheads point to central spindle and midbody. Note the
                complete absence of midbody remnants in the CeCDC-14 embryo (right column, bottom).
                Bar, 5 mum.The staining patterns produced by anti-CeCDC-14 antibodies were very reminiscent
                of those observed with antibodies directed against the central spindle components
                ZEN-4, a mitotic kinesin (Powers et al., 1998; Raich et al., 1998), and its partner
                protein CYK-4, a Rho-GAP (Jantsch-Plunger et al., 2000; Mishima et al., 2002). To
                directly explore a possible colocalization between CeCDC-14 and ZEN-4, worms
                expressing a functional ZEN-4-GFP fusion protein (Kaitna et al., 2000) were stained
                with antibodies against GFP and CeCDC-14. As illustrated in Fig. 1 C, the two
                antigens displayed extensive colocalization at both the central spindle and the
                polar body (arrow and arrowhead, respectively).RNA-mediated interference with CeCDC-14 leads to failure of cytokinesisThe localization of CeCDC-14 to the central spindle and the midbody suggested an
                involvement of this protein in cytokinesis. To directly test this possibility, worms
                were injected with dsRNA corresponding to CeCDC-14. 24 h later, worms were dissected
                and the corresponding embryos analyzed. Most strikingly, all embryos derived from
                CeCDC-14 RNAi-treated worms were multinucleate, suggesting that they had undergone
                multiple cytokinesis failures. Identical results were obtained, regardless of the
                timing of dissection after worm injection (unpublished data; Table II). Analysis of
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos by immunofluorescence microscopy with anti-CeCDC-14
                antibodies (n = 25) did not show any staining, confirming the efficacy of protein
                elimination by RNAi (Fig. 2 A).Time course of CeCDC-14 RNAi Hours past injection Embryonic lethality First division cytokinesis defect Polar
                body extrusion fails Length of mitosisa 0-12 25.6% (92/358) ND ND ND 12-18 62.8%
                (235/374)b ND ND ND 18-24 91.1% (194/213) 7/7 6/7 14 min, 13 s +- 1 min, 24 s (n =
                6) 24-30 100% (220/220) 12/13 11/13 16 min, 2 s 1 min, 49 s (n = 6) 30-36 100%
                (170/170) 16/16 12/16 17 min, 54 s +- 2 min, 42 s (n = 5) Wild-type 0% (0/200) 0/10
                0/10 14 min, 24 s +- 1 min, 1 s (n = 5)The length of mitosis was measured as the time from the meeting of the pronuclei
                to the reformation of both nuclear envelopes after completed/failed
                cytokinesis.Some of the worms that hatched shortly before the lethal period displayed
                disorganized germlines or died as larvae.Depletion of CeCDC-14 leads to failure of cytokinesis in C. elegans embryos. (A)
                Wild-type and CeCDC-14-depleted embryos at equivalent stages were stained with
                anti-tubulin (green) and anti-CeCDC-14 (red) antibodies. DAPI staining is shown in
                blue. Arrows point to midbody remnants. Bar, 5 mum. (B) Wild-type and
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos were filmed using differential interference contrast
                optics. Time is indicated in minutes at the bottom of each frame in reference to
                nuclear envelope break down (0.0). Note that the CeCDC-14- depleted embryo failed
                polar body extrusion (bottom panel -5.50 min and -4.00 min, arrowheads). The extra
                DNA masses became visible as additional nuclei after nuclear envelope reformation
                (11.50 min, arrow). The cleavage furrow ingressed almost to wild-type levels but
                then regressed rapidly (8.50 and 12.30 min). Note the extruded polar bodies in the
                wild-type embryo (12.10 min). Bar, ~10 mum. (C) Wild-type and CeCDC-14-depleted
                embryos in telophase were stained with antibodies against PGL-1, a P granule
                component (red). Tubulin is stained in green and DAPI is in blue. Bar, 5 mum.To examine the nature of the observed cytokinesis defect in more detail, embryos
                from worms injected with CeCDC-14-dsRNA were filmed using differential interference
                contrast (DIC) optics. As depicted in Fig. 2 B, such embryos progressed normally
                into the first mitosis and most of them also initiated cleavage furrow ingression in
                anaphase. In fact, regardless of the time of analysis after injection, most of the
                embryos (30/36) exhibited a deep cleavage furrow; however, subsequently, the furrows
                regressed and cytokinesis invariably failed. This phenotype is remarkably similar to
                the one observed in ZEN-4-depleted embryos (Powers et al., 1998; Raich et al.,
                1998). In addition to this cytokinesis failure in telophase, most of the embryos
                (29/36) also failed polar body extrusion in meiosis (Fig. 2 B, arrowhead, bottom,
                -5.50 and -4.00 min), leading to a more than 2N-DNA content in the zygotic embryo
                and multiple nuclei at later stages (Fig. 2 B, bottom, arrow, 12.30 min). These
                results indicate that the main defect caused by the depletion of CeCDC-14 is a
                pronounced failure of cytokinesis.In a minor proportion of embryos (6/36), the furrow only pinched in marginally
                before it regressed and cytokinesis failed. In some of these embryos, the
                pseudocleavage also appeared weaker or the spindle was placed more centrally than
                observed in wild-type embryos. Similar features have been observed in mutants
                defective in the establishment of polarity (Shelton et al., 1999; Rappleye et al.,
                2002) raising the possibility that the absence of CeCDC-14 might also have caused a
                polarity defect. However, when CeCDC-14-depleted embryos were stained with
                antibodies against P granules, these were found to display the same posterior
                localization as in wild-type embryos (Fig. 2 C). Staining with antibodies against
                PAR-2 and PAR-3, two further markers of polarity, also failed to reveal aberrations
                in the establishment of polarity, and most CeCDC-14-depleted embryos also displayed
                the characteristic flattening of the posterior spindle pole in anaphase (unpublished
                data; Keating and White, 1998). Thus, our results fail to support a major, direct
                role of CeCDC-14 in the establishment of polarity. On the other hand, considering
                that ~15% of CeCDC-14-depleted embryos did give indications of a polarity defect, it
                would be premature to rigorously exclude such a role. It remains possible that very
                low levels of residual phosphatase activity could suffice for a polarity-related
                function.The central spindle fails to form in worms injected with CeCDC-14 dsRNAProblems with cytokinesis could either reflect a failure to establish a stable
                central spindle (Jantsch-Plunger et al., 2000; Powers et al., 1998; Raich et al.,
                1998), or a failure of the actomyosin ring to assemble and contract correctly (Swan
                et al., 1998; Shelton et al., 1999). In order to inspect the state of the central
                spindle and the actin cytoskeleton in CeCDC-14-depleted embryos, microtubules were
                stained with anti-tubulin antibodies and F-actin with phalloidin. In embryos
                injected with CeCDC-14-dsRNA, bundled microtubules characteristic of the central
                spindle were absent, whereas the astral microtubules appeared normal (25 out of 25
                embryos) (Fig. 3 A). Analysis of F-actin using FITC-phalloidin (Fig. 3 B) revealed
                the expected cortical actin staining in wild-type (n = 15), as well as in CeCDC-14-
                (n = 7) and ZEN-4-depleted embryos (n = 9). The depleted embryos showed only partial
                actomyosin rings in telophase (Fig. 3 B), but this result needs to be interpreted
                with caution. As shown above (Fig. 2 B), the furrows in these depleted embryos
                regressed very rapidly, making it extremely difficult to capture the instant of
                maximal ingression for immunocytochemical analysis. Thus, we do not believe that
                either CeCDC-14 or ZEN-4 play a direct role in actomyosin ring formation, in
                agreement with previous reports on ZEN-4 (Powers et al., 1998; Severson et al.,
                2000). Instead, the regression of the contractile ring observed in CeCDC-14-depleted
                embryos most likely stems from a failure of the central spindle to form correctly.
                Thus, our data identify CeCDC-14 as a novel regulator of central spindle formation
                in metazoan cells.CeCDC-14-depleted embryos lack bundled midzone microtubules. (A) Wild-type and
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos in the first anaphase were stained with anti-tubulin
                antibodies (green). DAPI staining is shown in blue. Arrowheads point to the central
                spindle (top), which is absent in CeCDC-14-depleted embryos. (B) Wild-type,
                CeCDC-14- and ZEN-4-depleted embryos in telophase were fixed with paraformaldehyde
                and stained with FITC-phalloidin. All three embryos showed cortical actin staining
                but only partial actin rings at the cleavage furrow were observed in CeCDC-14- and
                ZEN-4-depleted embryos (arrowheads). Bar, 5mum.Both ZEN-4 and AIR-2 are mislocalized in CeCDC-14-depleted embryosThe bundling of the central spindle microtubules in the C. elegans embryo has
                previously been attributed to the action of the ZEN-4/CYK-4 complex (Powers et al.,
                1998; Raich et al., 1998; Jantsch-Plunger et al., 2000). A homologous complex called
                centralspindlin has also been identified in human cells, and has been shown to
                induce microtubule bundling in vitro (Mishima et al., 2002). In view of these
                findings, the lack of bundled microtubules in the spindle midzone of
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos could be explained if the ZEN-4/CYK-4 complex failed to
                localize correctly. To examine this possibility, the localization of ZEN-4 was
                examined in both wild-type and CeCDC-14-depleted embryos (Fig. 4 A). In wild-type
                embryos, ZEN-4 was detected at the spindle midzone and the midbody, confirming
                previous results (Powers et al., 1998; Raich et al., 1998). In contrast,
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos showed virtually no staining for ZEN-4 in either anaphase
                or telophase (n = 20).ZEN-4 and AIR-2 are mislocalized in CeCDC-14-depleted embryos. (A) Wild-type and
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos were stained with anti-tubulin (green) and anti-ZEN-4
                antibodies (red). (B) Wild-type embryos and embryos depleted of CeCDC-14 by RNAi
                were stained with antibodies recognizing AIR-2 (red). Note that in the
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryo some microtubules were stained with anti-AIR-2 antibody
                (bottom row, arrow) whereas the chromosomes were not recognized by the antibody. DNA
                staining is in blue. Arrowheads point to the central spindle and midbodies.Another component required for normal cytokinesis in metazoan cells is the
                chromosomal passenger kinase AIR-2 (Aurora B) (for review see Adams et al., 2001a).
                In wild-type C. elegans embryos, AIR-2 localizes to the kinetochores of chromosomes
                in early mitosis, and to the central spindle and midbody in anaphase and telophase
                (Schumacher et al., 1998). In ZEN-4-depleted embryos, which lack dense microtubule
                bundles between the chromosome masses, AIR-2 localization is restricted to small
                microtubule bundles (Powers et al., 1998). Similarly, we observed that some
                microtubules were still labeled by anti-AIR-2 antibodies in CeCDC-14-depleted
                embryos (n = 5), even though no compact central spindles were assembled (Fig. 4 B,
                bottom). This suggests that the transfer of AIR-2 from kinetochores to microtubules
                is not impaired by the absence of CeCDC-14.Failure of ZEN-4-GFP to localize to the spindle midzone in CeCDC-14-RNAi
                embryosFrom the analysis of fixed CeCDC-14-depleted embryos, it was impossible to
                determine whether the mislocalization of ZEN-4 was due to an inability of ZEN-4 to
                localize to the central spindle, or alternatively, reflected an unstable association
                of ZEN-4 with the spindle midzone. The latter mechanism had previously been
                described to underlie the ZEN-4 mislocalization phenotype in embryos injected with
                dsRNA for the C. elegans INCENP homologue, ICP-1 (Kaitna et al., 2000). To
                distinguish between the two possibilities, worms carrying a functional ZEN-4-GFP
                fusion (Kaitna et al., 2000) were injected with CeCDC-14 dsRNA, and
                CeCDC-14-depleted and control embryos were then observed in real time. In wild-type
                embryos, ZEN-4-GFP began to localize to the central spindle in anaphase, and
                subsequently formed a bright spot at the position of the midbody in telophase (n =
                4) (Fig. 5, left). However, in embryos depleted of CeCDC-14, no transient
                accumulation of ZEN-4-GFP could be observed at any time point (n = 6) (Fig. 5, right
                two panels). From the comparison of these results with those reported for embryos
                depleted of ICP-1 (Kaitna et al., 2000), it seems clear that depletion of CeCDC-14
                disturbs the organization of the central spindle more completely than depletion of
                ICP-1.ZEN-4-GFP fails to localize in vivo to the midzone of CeCDC-14-depleted embryos.
                Untreated (left two columns) and CeCDC-14-RNAi-injected (right four columns)
                ZEN-4-GFP (MG170) embryos were observed throughout the first division. The time
                indicated is in reference to nuclear envelope break down (0.0 min). Two
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos are shown. Note the dot-like ZEN-4-GFP signal in the
                wild-type embryo at the site of polar body extrusion (arrow) that was absent in the
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos. Similarly, ZEN-4-GFP accumulated at the central spindle
                in anaphase (6 min, arrowhead) and at the midbody during cytokinesis (8 min,
                arrowhead) in wild-type but not in CeCDC-14-depleted embryos. Bar, ~10 mum.CeCDC-14 and ZEN-4 are interdependent in their localizationTo characterize the relationship between CeCDC-14 and ZEN-4 in more detail,
                embryos were also depleted of ZEN-4 by RNAi, and then analyzed by immunofluorescence
                microscopy, using anti-CeCDC-14 antibodies. As shown in Fig. 6, CeCDC-14 was
                completely lost from both the central spindle and the midbody in ZEN-4-depleted
                embryos (n = 25) (Fig. 6). The same result was obtained in CYK-4-depleted embryos
                (unpublished data). Together with the data presented in Fig. 4, this indicates that
                CeCDC-14 and the ZEN-4/CYK-4 complex are mutually dependent on each other for
                localization. In parallel, we also examined embryos depleted for AIR-2. In addition
                to a severe cytokinesis defect, such AIR-2-depleted embryos display problems with
                DNA segregation during anaphase, leading to chromatin bridges and unsegregated DNA
                masses in telophase (Schumacher et al., 1998; Kaitna et al., 2000). In most
                AIR-2-depleted embryos examined with anti-CeCDC-14 antibodies, no localized CeCDC-14
                staining could be seen (n = 20) (Fig. 6, bottom).ZEN-4-depleted embryos do not show localized CeCDC-14 staining. Control
                (UNC-22-RNAi), ZEN-4- and AIR-2-depleted embryos were stained with antibodies
                against CeCDC-14 (red) and alpha-tubulin antibodies (green). DAPI staining is in
                blue. Arrowheads point to central spindle and midbody. Bar, 5 mum.Depletion of CeCDC-14 does not affect cell cycle progression in C. elegans
                embryosAs described above, embryos depleted of CeCDC-14 clearly failed cell division, but
                remarkably they appeared to continue in the cell cycle. In fact, CeCDC-14-depleted
                embryos seemed to keep duplicating both their DNA and their centrosomes. This
                observation is in stark contrast with the situation in S. cerevisiae, in which
                cdc14-ts mutants, when shifted to the nonpermissive temperature, were unable to exit
                mitosis and instead arrested in anaphase with segregated chromosomes and high Cdk1
                activity (Visintin et al., 1998). To more carefully examine the influence of
                CeCDC-14 depletion on cell cycle progression, two types of analyses were carried
                out. First, embryos were dissected from worms at different times after injection of
                CeCDC-14-dsRNA, and the time required for these embryos to proceed through mitosis
                was measured. Most importantly, no cell cycle arrest could be observed at any time
                point (Table II). This was true even for batches of injected worms that were
                followed until oocytes failed to be fertilized due to depletion of the stored sperm.
                For embryos dissected at late time points (24-36 h after injection), our data
                suggested a possible increase in the length of mitosis (Table II). However, because
                it was difficult to measure the period between nuclear envelope breakdown and
                reformation accurately by DIC optics (note the relatively large standard error of
                the means in Table II), we also analyzed cell cycle progression in histone-GFP
                embryos. By filming such embryos, the time intervals between different mitotic
                events could be measured very accurately. As shown in Table III and Videos 1 and 2
                (available at http://www.jcb.org/cgi/content/full/jcb.200202054/DC1), no significant
                differences in the duration of the first mitosis could be observed between wild-type
                and CeCDC-14-depleted embryos.Cell cycle analysis using histone H2B-GFP Wild-typea CeCDC-14-RNAia,b 1st to 2nd mitotic metaphase 17 min, 22 s +- 1 min,
                45 s 18 min, 13 s +- 2 min, 1 s Nuclear envelope breakdown to 1st metaphase 3 min, 6
                s +- 19 s 3 min, 7 s +- 24 s 1st mitotic metaphase to chromosome decondensation 2
                min, 25 s +- 11 s 2 min, 32 s +- 22 sn = 7 for both wild-type and CeCDC-14-depleted embryos.For this experiment CeCDC-14 depleted embryos were used 30-36 h postinjection in
                order to ensure maximal depletion of the protein.In a second series of experiments, wild-type and CeCDC-14-depleted embryos were
                stained with anti-phospho-histone H3 antibodies. Because the appearance and
                disappearance of the phospho-serine 10 epitope correlates with entry into and exit
                from mitosis, staining with antibodies against phospho-serine 10 has been used
                extensively as a marker for mitotic progression (Hendzel et al., 1997; Wei et al.,
                1999; Lorson et al., 2000). In both wild-type and CeCDC-14-depleted embryos, the
                segregated DNA masses at anaphase still exhibited substantial anti-phospho-histone
                H3 staining (Fig. 7, top row). However, in telophase, this staining completely
                disappeared, regardless of the presence or absence of CeCDC-14 (Fig. 7, second row).
                Both wild-type and CeCDC-14-depleted embryos then entered the next cell cycle (in
                the CeCDC-14-depleted situation a quadrupolar spindle was formed) and chromosomal
                anti-phospho-histone H3 staining reappeared again (Fig. 7, third row). In wild-type
                embryos at later stages, strong midbody remnant staining was observed with the
                anti-CeCDC-14 antibody, but the extent of anti-phospho-histone H3 staining differed
                between individual cells, depending on which cell cycle state they were in at the
                time of fixation (Fig. 7, left, bottom row). In contrast, in later CeCDC-14-depleted
                embryos all DNA masses were either condensed or decondensed, reflecting the fact
                that these embryos shared a common cytoplasm. In those embryos that displayed
                condensed chromosomes, most chromatin masses stained strongly positive with
                anti-phospho-histone H3 antibodies (Fig. 7, right, bottom row). These data show that
                histone H3 phosphorylation undergoes similar cyclic changes in both wild-type and
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos, confirming that cell cycle progression per se is not
                significantly altered upon depletion of CeCDC-14 from C. elegans embryos. As it has
                recently been demonstrated that one of the kinases responsible for the mitotic
                phosphorylation of histone H3 on serine 10 is Aurora B (AIR-2 in C. elegans) (Hsu et
                al., 2000; Giet and Glover, 2001; Adams et al., 2001b; Crosio et al., 2002), these
                data also imply that the mitotic function of AIR-2 is not significantly impaired by
                the depletion of CeCDC-14.DiscussionIn all eukaryotic organisms, cell division needs to be spatially and temporally
                coordinated with chromosome segregation. Yet, different species accomplish the task
                of cell division in different ways. Whereas unicellular yeast divide by budding (S.
                cerevisiae) or septation (S. pombe), cytokinesis in animal cells is centered on the
                assembly of a central spindle, followed by constriction of a contractile ring (Le
                Goff et al., 1999; Balasubramanian et al., 2000; Glotzer, 2001). Extensive studies
                with budding and fission yeast have led to the elucidation of signaling pathways,
                termed MEN and SIN, respectively, that operate to coordinate mitotic exit and
                cytokinesis. In contrast, little is known about analogous regulatory circuits in
                animal cells. As deduced from comparative sequence analyses, animal genomes do
                contain apparent structural homologues of some, albeit probably not all, components
                of the yeast MEN/SIN pathways. Here, we have used RNAi to perform a functional
                analysis of potential MEN/SIN homologues in C. elegans. Of all genes tested, only
                the depletion of the CeCDC-14 phosphatase produced an embryonic lethal phenotype.
                Most interestingly, we could show that depletion of the CeCDC-14 phosphatase caused
                a severe cytokinesis failure in C. elegans embryos. In contrast, DNA replication and
                segregation, as well as centrosome duplication, continued for multiple cell
                cycles.Depletion of CeCDC-14 but not other MEN/SIN homologues causes embryonic
                lethalitySurprisingly, our RNAi-based survey of potential C. elegans MEN/SIN homologues
                revealed an embryonic requirement only for the CeCDC-14 phosphatase. Several factors
                may contribute to explain this finding. First, two of the MEN/SIN components
                analyzed (Dbf2p and Mob1p) have more than one potential homologue in the C. elegans
                genome, raising the possibility of redundancy. In these cases, it might be necessary
                to simultaneously deplete all potential homologues in order to observe a phenotype.
                Second, it is possible that some of the MEN/SIN components serve to fulfill
                requirements specific to yeast cell budding or fission, respectively, and these
                functions may not have been conserved during evolution of metazoan organisms. Third,
                whether or not a particular gene product is required for cell cycle progression may
                depend on the developmental context. Consistent with this possibility, we have
                observed that depletion of two C. elegans kinases structurally related to MEN/SIN
                components (Dbf2p of S. cerevisiae and Sid1p of S. pombe) produced an F1 arrest at
                the L1 stage and degeneration of the germ line, respectively.CeCDC-14 regulates cytokinesis in C. elegans embryosOur studies provide strong evidence for a key role of the metazoan Cdc14
                phosphatase in cytokinesis. As a result of this critical requirement, C. elegans
                embryos depleted of CeCDC-14 display early embryonic lethality. The phenotype of
                embryos derived from CeCDC-14-dsRNA-injected worms indicates that CeCDC-14 is
                important for the regulation of cytokinesis per se, independent of a possible role
                in cell cycle control. Previous studies on the budding yeast Cdc14p protein had not
                revealed a direct role for this phosphatase in cytokinesis. However, because
                cdc14-ts mutants arrest at late anaphase, any requirement for Cdc14p at later stages
                of the cell cycle might have escaped detection. In the case of fission yeast, some
                cytokinesis defects could be observed in the absence of Clp1p/Flp1p, particularly in
                conjunction with mutations of other SIN components (Cueille et al., 2001). Thus,
                this phosphatase may play a role in the regulation of cytokinesis not only in animal
                cells but also in yeast.CeCDC-14 depletion does not affect the embryonic C. elegans cell cycleIn both S. cerevisiae and S. pombe, Cdc14p and Clp1p/Flp1p have been implicated in
                the regulation of Cdk1 activity, albeit at different stages of the cell cycle. In
                striking contrast, in C. elegans embryos depleted of CeCDC-14, the nuclear cycles
                continued with similar timing as in wild-type embryos. Taken at face value, this
                result indicates that the C. elegans Cdc14 phosphatase is required for cytokinesis
                but not for other aspects of cell cycle control. Of course, it is difficult to
                rigorously exclude that some residual CeCDC-14 protein, at levels undetectable by
                immunofluorescence microscopy, might be sufficient to fulfill a potential cell cycle
                function. In an attempt to maximize the depletion of CeCDC-14, we have also analyzed
                embryos that were dissected after prolonged incubation of injected worms. This has
                been reported to enhance depletion of some proteins (Rappleye et al., 2002), but in
                our experiments did not give rise to additional phenotypes. The vast majority of
                treated embryos was defective in both polar body extrusion and cytokinesis, and yet
                progressed through the cell cycle with near-normal kinetics. At the very least, this
                suggests that embryonic cell cycle progression is much less dependent on Cdc14
                activity than cytokinesis.It is important to bear in mind that embryonic cell cycles may lack certain
                controls that are operating at later developmental stages. For instances, embryonic
                cycles appear to be devoid of checkpoint mechanisms, as indicated by their inability
                to arrest in response to nocodazole (Hyman and White, 1987; Kitagawa and Rose,
                1999). Thus, although the direct regulation of cytokinesis may well be the only
                essential function of CeCDC-14 in the embryonic cycles, additional functions may be
                required at larval stages. We cannot presently test this possibility, because the
                CeCDC-14-depleted embryos die before hatching. Thus, to further elucidate a
                potential role for CeCDC-14 in the regulation of somatic cell cycles,
                temperature-sensitive mutants will be required.Depletion of CeCDC-14 interferes with central spindle assemblyIn embryos depleted of CeCDC-14, bundled midzone microtubules did not assemble,
                and the kinesin-related motor ZEN-4 failed to localize to the spindle midzone. This
                behavior of ZEN-4 is different from that observed in embryos depleted for the INCENP
                protein ICP-1, in which ZEN-4 could locate to the central spindle, albeit
                transiently (Kaitna et al., 2000). The phenotype observed here could be explained in
                two ways: first, it is possible that CeCDC-14 regulates an upstream factor essential
                for central spindle formation. In this scenario, the failure of ZEN-4 to localize to
                the central spindle in CeCDC-14-depleted embryos would simply reflect the absence of
                stable midzone microtubules. Alternatively, ZEN-4, and/or its partner CYK-4, could
                themselves be regulated by CeCDC-14. Specifically, one could argue that ZEN-4 and/or
                CYK-4 need to be dephosphorylated in order to localize to the forming central
                spindle, and that in their absence, microtubule bundles might disassemble. To test
                this second possibility, we have phosphorylated recombinant ZEN-4/CYK-4 complexes by
                Cdk1-cyclin B in vitro, and then used these phosphoproteins as substrates for
                CeCDC-14. However, although the recombinant phosphatase readily dephosphorylated
                histone H1, no dephosphorylation of either ZEN-4 or CYK-4 could be observed (M.
                Mishima, U. Gruneberg, and M. Glotzer, personal communication). In future studies,
                it will thus be interesting to consider additional candidate substrates of CeCDC-14.
                These might include microtubule-stabilizing factors or other regulatory proteins
                involved in the process of central spindle formation.Materials and methodsRNA-mediated interferenceFor CeCDC-14-RNAi, full-length inserts of ESTs yk506f9, yk573g10, and yk643d10
                were amplified using primers CMO24 (TTGTAAAACGACGGCCAG) and CMO25
                (CATGATTACGCCAAGCTC) which anneal to the vector backbone of pBluescript SK-. The
                resulting PCR products were used as templates for in vitro transcription using
                Ribomax T7- and T3-in vitro transcription kits (Promega). Double-stranded RNA was
                produced as described (Fire et al., 1998), diluted with injection buffer (6.6 mM
                K-phosphate, pH 7.5, 1 mM K-citrate, pH 7.5, 0.66% PEG6000), and injected into the
                gonads of young adult N2 hermaphrodites at a final concentration of 3-5 mug/mul.
                Injected worms were kept at 20 C and analyzed at the indicated time points after
                injection. The embryos of injected worms showed embryonic lethality, but no defects
                were observed in the germ line of the injected worms. For immunofluorescence
                microscopy worms were harvested between 20 and 28 h after injection, unless
                indicated otherwise. For ZEN-4-RNAi and AIR-2-RNAi the inserts of EST yk35d10 and
                yk665d12, respectively, were amplified as above, TA-cloned into feeding vector L440,
                and transformed into HT115 bacteria. These transformed bacteria were then used for
                RNAi feeding of N2 L4 larvae (Timmons et al., 2001). Worms were dissected after a
                20-h incubation on feeding plates at 15 C.For the depletion of potential C. elegans MEN/SIN homologues other than CeCDC-14,
                the following ESTs were used for preparing dsRNA or feeding constructs, as described
                above: yk157e4, yk249f3 (R11G1.4), yk467f11 (T12B3.4), yk8f12 (T19A5.2), yk50a8
                (T20F10.1), yk462g7, and yk373c2 (F09A5.4). F38H4.10 and C33F10.2 were amplified
                from C. elegans cDNA and TA cloned either into L440 for feeding experiments or into
                pCRII-TOPO (Invitrogen). For in vitro transcription, the inserts were amplified with
                M13-FW and RV-primers and transcribed using T7 and SP6 polymerase. All ESTs used in
                this study were provided by Dr. Yuji Kohara (National Institute of Genetics,
                Mishima, Japan).DIC filming of worm embryosAll filming of embryos was conducted at 20 C. Worms were dissected in a drop of
                PBS on an 18 x 18-mm coverslip and mounted onto a 2% agar pad. The coverslip was
                sealed with silicon glue and embryos were recorded with a 63x/1.4 objective using
                DIC optics on a Zeiss Axiovert S 100 microscope equipped with a JAI CV-M50 camera
                and Image-Pro Express 4.0 software. Single frames were then exported into Adobe
                Photoshop.Time-lapse recording of ZEN-4-GFP and histone H1-GFP embryosFor real-time recordings of ZEN-4-GFP in C. elegans embryos, strain MG170 (zen-4
                [or 153ts]); (xsEx6 [zen-4-GFP]]) (Kaitna et al., 2000) was used. This strain was
                propagated at 25 C. Untreated or RNAi-injected MG170 worms were dissected as
                described above, and time-lapse recordings of GFP fluorescence were carried out as
                described previously (Jantsch-Plunger et al., 2000), using a Zeiss Axioplan 2
                microscope with a piezo stepper (Physik Instrumente), a CoolSnap camera for image
                acquisition and Metamorph software. The exposure time for GFP fluorescence was 100
                ms, and six frames, 2 mum apart, were taken every 15 s. Time-lapse recordings of
                histone H2B-GFP embryos were performed in a similar manner, with the exception that
                only two frames, 1.5 mum apart, were taken every 6 s in order to increase temporal
                resolution. Filming of histone-GFP embryos was carried out at 25 C. For data
                analysis, each stack of GFP images was projected onto a single plane, and the
                projections were processed for figures using Adobe Photoshop.Phosphatase assaysFull-length CeCDC-14 was cloned into pQE32 (QIAGEN) and purified according to
                standard procedures using Ni-NTA agarose (QIAGEN). The protein was eluted with 20 mM
                Tris-Cl, pH 8.0, 300 mM NaCl, 200 mM imidazole, and the imidazole subsequently
                removed by passing the eluate over a 5-ml HiTrap desalting column (Amersham
                Biosciences). Purified CeCDC-14 was stored at -80 in 25 mM Hepes, pH 7.3, 300 mM
                NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM DTT, 10% glycerol. Phosphatase activity was measured in
                reaction buffer consisting of 50 mM imidazole, pH 6.9, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM EDTA as
                described (Taylor et al., 1997), using 1 mg/ml para-nitrophenyl phosphate
                (Sigma-Aldrich) and 200-6,400 ng of enzyme. Control reactions were carried out using
                the phosphatase-dead CeCDC-14 (cysteine 295 mutated to serine).AntibodiesFor the production of CeCDC-14-specific antibodies, rabbits were immunized with a
                GST-CeCDC-14 aa 352-605 fusion protein expressed in E. coli. Antibodies were
                affinity-purified using a 6His-CeCDC-14 fusion protein coupled to Affi-Gel 10 and
                used at a final concentration of 0.25 mug/ml.The antibodies specific for ZEN-4 and AIR-2 have been described (Jantsch-Plunger
                et al., 2000; Kaitna et al., 2002). Tubulin was stained with the mouse monoclonal
                antibody DM1A (Sigm-Aldrich). Antibodies recognizing phospho-histone H3 (serine10)
                were obtained from Upstate Biotechnology. Affinity-purified sheep-anti-GFP antibody
                was a gift from Dr. Francis Barr (Max-Planck Institute for Biochemistry). Anti-PGL-1
                antibodies and antibodies against PAR-2 and PAR-3 were provided by Drs. Susan Strome
                (Indiana University, Bloomington, IN) and Ken Kemphues (Cornell University, Ithaca,
                NY), respectively.Insect cell expressionFor baculovirus expression, full-length C17G10.4c was amplified by RT-PCR from
                total worm cDNA using an Advantage RT-for-PCR kit (CLONTECH Laboratories, Inc.),
                TA-cloned into pCRII-TOPO (Invitrogen) and subcloned into the baculovirus transfer
                vector pAcSG2 (Becton-Dickinson). Recombinant baculoviruses were generated by
                cotransfecting Sf9 cells with the C17G10.4c transfer vector and BaculoGold-DNA
                (Becton-Dickinson) according to the manufacturer's protocols.ImmunoblottingTotal worm lysate was prepared by resuspending a worm pellet of 100 mul in 200 mul
                urea-buffer (Knop et al., 1996). The lysate was heated at 65 C for 10 min and 5 mul
                were applied per lane of an SDS-PAGE minigel. The separated proteins were
                transferred to Protran membrane (Schleicher and Schuell) and probed with
                affinity-purified anti-CeCDC-14 antibodies at a concentration of 0.25 mug/ml. For
                analysis of untagged recombinant CeCDC-14 protein, baculovirus-infected Sf9 cells
                were harvested 48 h postinfection with the C17G10.4c-virus. The cell pellet was
                lysed at 4 x 106 cells/ml in 50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5% IGEPAL, 1 mM
                Pefabloc (Roche), and a protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche). The lysate was
                centrifuged for 10 min at 14,000 rpm in a table top centrifuge and the supernatant
                diluted 1:10 with PBS. 5 mul was loaded per lane of an SDS-PAGE minigel and
                processed as described above.Immunofluorescence microscopyFor staining of phospho-histone H3, ZEN-4, AIR-2, and CeCDC-14, embryos were
                freeze cracked and fixed in -20 C methanol for 20 min as described (Jantsch-Plunger
                et al., 2000). Phalloidin staining was performed using a modified version of the
                published protocol (Strome, 1986). The fixation/staining solution was 4%
                paraformaldehyde, 50 mM Pipes, pH 6.8, 5 mM EGTA, 300 nM FITC-phalloidin. For P
                granule staining embryos were fixed for 10 min in cold methanol followed by 10 min
                in cold acetone ass described (Kawasaki et al., 1998). Stacks of immunofluorescence
                images 0.2 mum apart were collected using a Deltavision microscope (Applied
                Precision) and a 100x/1.4 oil objective. The three-dimensional stacks (typically
                35-45 planes) were computationally deconvolved, projected onto a single plane and
                further processed for figures in Adobe Photoshop.Online supplemental materialFig. S1 (available at http://www.jcb.org/cgi/content/full/jcb.200202054/DC1)
                documents the phenotypes observed upon depletion of the putative Dbf2p homologue
                T20F10.1 and the putative Sid1p homologue T19A5.2.Supplemental Material  Abbreviations used in this paper: APC/C, anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome;
                DIC, differential interference contrast; MEN, mitotic exit network; pNPP,
                para-nitrophenyl phosphate; RNAi, RNA-mediated interference; SIN, septum initiation
                network; SPB, spindle pole body.